{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Bold;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Oblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red53\green53\blue53;\red251\green2\blue7;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c27059\c27059\c27059;\cssrgb\c100000\c14913\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25400\viewh14580\viewkind0
\deftab560
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs26 \cf2 CS 31 
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 \
week 3, monday\
april 16, 2018
\f1\b0 \
\
#include <iostream>\
using namespace std;\
\
int main()\
\{\
	const double PAYRATE_THRESHOLD = 14.00; // const = cannot change it!\
	const double HIGH_WITHHOLDING_RATE = 0.10;\
	const double LOW_WITHHOLDING_RATE = 0.05;\
\
	PAYRATE_THRESHOLD = 15.00; \cf3 // Error! Won\'92t compile! PAYRATE_THRESHOLD is const!\cf2 \
\
	cout << \'93How many hours did you work? \'94;\
	double hoursWorked;\
	cin >> hoursWorked;\
\
	// cout << \'93Hrs worked: \'93 << hoursWorked << endl;\
\
	cout << \'93What is your hourly rate of pay? \'94;\
	double payRate;\
	cin >> payRate;\
\
	double amtEarned = hoursWorked * payRate\
\
	cout.setf(ios::fixed);\
	cout.precision(2);\
	cout << \'93You earned $\'94 << amtEarned << endl;\
\
	double withholdingRate;\
	if (payRate >= PAYRATE_THRESHOLD)\
		withholdingRate = HIGH_WITHHOLDING_RATE;\
	else\
		withholdingRate = LOW_WITHHOLDING_RATE;\
\
	cout << \'93$\'94 << (amtEarned * withholdingRate) << \'93 will be withheld.\'94 << endl;\
\}\
\
\
\
\
\
string citizenship;\
int age;\
\
...\
\
if (citizenship == \'93USA\'94)\
	\{\
	if (age >= 18)\
		cout << \'93You can vote in U.S. elections\'94 << endl;\
	\}\
else\
	cout << \'93You are not a U.S. citizen.\'94 << endl;\
\
\
\
if (
\f2\i expression1 
\f1\i0 && 
\f2\i expression2
\f1\i0 )		\'93and\'94\
\
if (
\f2\i expression1 
\f1\i0 || 
\f2\i expression2
\f1\i0 )		\'93or\'94\
\
\
if (citizenship == \'93USA\'94 && age >= 18)\
	cout << \'93You can vote in U.S. elections.\'94 << endl;\
\
if (a/b + c/d > 10) // problem if b or d = 0\
\
if (b != 0 && d != 0 && a/b + c/d > 10) // Fine\
\
if (a/b + c/d > 10 && b != 0 && d != 0) // Undefined behavior if b = 0 or d = 0\
\
if (citizenship == \'93USA\'94 || citizenship == \'93Canada\'94)\
	cout << \'93The country code is 1\'94 << endl;\
\
if (citizenship == \'93USA\'94 || == \'93Canada\'94) // Error! Won\'92t compile!\
\
if (citizenship == \'93USA\'94 || \'93Canada\'94) // Will compile, but will always be true\
\
if (age == 18 || age == 19 || age == 20) // Fine\
\
if (age == 18 || 19 || 20) // will compile, but will always be true\
\
if (age >= 18 && age <= 20) // Fine\
\
if (age >= 18 && <= 20) // Error! Won\'92t compile\
\
if (18 <= age <= 20) // Will compile, but will always be true\
\
\
%% has higher precedence than ||\
\
if ((citizenship == \'93US\'94 || citizenship == \'93Canada\'94) && age >= 18)\
	...\
\
\
flipping statements: need to be careful of less/greater than and equal to, switch || to &&\
\
if (citizenship != \'93USA\'94 || age < 18)\
\{\
	long\
\}\
else\
	short\
\
vs\
\
if (citizenship == \'93USA\'94 && age >= 18)\
\{\
	short\
\}\
else\
	long\
\
\
if (rating < 1 || rating > 10)\
\
if (rating >= 1 && rating <= 10)\
\
\
De Morgan\'92s Laws:\
	not (A or B) ==> (not A) and (not B)\
	not (A and B) ==> (not A) or (not B)\
\
\
not (a > b) ==> a <= b\
not (a < b) ==> a >= b\
not (a >= b) ==> a < b\
not (a <= b) ==> a > b\
not (a == b) ==> a != b\
not (a != b) ==> a == b\
\
\
if (income < 30000)\
	cout << \'93Low\'94;\
else if (income > 100000)\
	cout << \'93Medium\'94;\
else if (income < 500000)\
	cout << \'93High\'94;\
else\
	cout << \'93Very high\'94;\
\
\'93if ladder\'94\
\
\
\
int main()\
\{\
	...\
	int choice;\
	cin >> choice;\
	...\
\
	if (choice == 1)\
		...\
	else if (choice == 2 || choice == 4)\
		...\
	else if (choice == 3 || choice == 5)\
		...\
	else\
	\{\
		cout << \'93Choice must be 1 through 5.\'94 << endl;\
		return 1;\
	\}\
	...\
	...\
	...\
\}\
\
\
\
switch (choice)\
\{\
	case 1:\
		...\
		break;\
	case 2:\
	case 4: // case 2 or 4 executes case 4 code\
		...\
		break; // kicks you out of the switch\
	case 3:\
	case 5:\
		...\
		break;\
	default:\
		...\
\}\
\
\
\
\
\

\f0\b week 3, wednesday\
april 18, 2018\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 cout << \'93How many people? \'93;\
int numPeople;\
cin >> numPeople;\
\
switch (numPeople)\
\{\
	case 0:\
		cout << \'93Nobody\'94 << endl;\
		break;\
	case 1:\
		cout << \'93One lonely person\'94 << endl;\
		break;\
	case 2:\
		cout << \'93A happy couple\'94 << endl;\
		break;\
	case 3:\
	case 4:\
		cout << \'93A few people\'94 << endl;\
		break;\
	default:\
		cout << \'93A lot of people!\'94 << endl;\
\}\
cout << \'93......" << endl;\
\
\
switch (numPeople)\
\{\
	...\
	case 10: case 11: case 12: case 13: case 14: case 15:\
	...\
\}\
\
CAN\'92T USE DOUBLES FOR SWITCH STATEMENTS\
\
\
string city;\
getline(cin, city);\
switch (city) // Error! Won\'92t compile! Can\'92t switch on a string \
\{\
	case \'93Los Angeles\'94: // NO!\
\}\
\
\
\
How many times do you want to be greeted? 
\f2\i 3\

\f1\i0 Hello\
Hello\
Hello\
\
\
cout << \'93How many times do you want to be greeted? \'93;\
int nTimes;\
cin >> nTimes;\
int n = 0;\
while (n < nTimes)\
\{\
	cout << \'93Hello\'94 << endl;\
	n += 1; // n++\
\}\
cout << \'93Good to see you.\'94 << endl;\
\
possible errors: off-by-one or fencepost error\
\
\
\
int n = 0;\
while (n < nTimes)\
\{\
	...\
	n++;\
\}\
\
\
\
\
for (int n = 0; n < nTimes; n++)\
\{\
	...\
\}\
\
for (initialization; stay-in-loop condition; prepare-for-next-iteration)\
	statement\
\
\
\
for (int n = 10; n >= 0; n++) \
	cout << n << endl;\
end\
\
What happens? n becomes the larger integer that can be represented on your computer, then it cycles back down to -2 billion and it stops (NOT INFINITE LOOP)\
\
\
\
\
while (condition)\
statement\
\
\
\
do\
	statement\
while (condition);\
\
int n = 0;\
do\
\{\
	cout << \'93Hello\'94 << endl;\
	n++;\
\} while (n < nTimes);\
// PROBLEM WHEN nTimes = 0!\
\
\
\
for (int r = 1; r <= 3; r++) // nested loop\
\{\
	for (int c = 1; c <= 4; c++)\
	\{\
	cout << \'93*\'94;\
	\}\
	cout << endl;\
\}\
\
\
\
string s = \'93Hello\'94;\
for (int k = 0; k != s.size(); k++) //(string name).size() finds length of string\
	cout << s[k] << endl; // string name[number] calls that position character in the string\
\
\
\
where\
   0 1 2 3 4\
s: H e l l o\
(start at 0)\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}