{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Bold;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Oblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red53\green53\blue53;\red251\green2\blue7;\red0\green0\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c27059\c27059\c27059;\cssrgb\c100000\c14913\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14860\viewh9680\viewkind0
\deftab560
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs26 \cf2 CS 31 
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 \
week 4, monday\
april 23, 2018
\f1\b0 \
\
string s = \'93Hello\'94;\
for (int k = 0; k < s.size(); k++)\
	cout << s[k] << endl;\
\
H e l l o\
0 1 2 3 4\
if s[7] or s[-1] ==> undefined behavior\
\
// count the number of o\'92s\
cout << \'93Enter some text: \'93;\
string t;\
getline(cin, t);\
int count = 0;\
\
for (int k = 0; k < s.size(); k++)\
	if (t[k] == \'91o\'92 || t[k] == \'91O\'92)\
		count++;\
cout << \'93The number of o\'92s (upper and lower case) is \'93 << count << endl;\
\
\
string s = \'93Hello\'94; // s is a string; \'93Hello\'94 is a 
\f2\i string literal 
\f1\i0 \
char c = s[1];		// c is a char (initialized to lower case e)\
char c = \'93x\'94 \cf3 // Error! Won\'92t compile!\cf4 \
string s = \'91x\'92; \cf3 // Error! Won\'92t compile!\cf4 \
\
\
cout << \'93Enter a phone number: \'93;\
string num;\
getline(cin, num);\
\
ex:\
(310) 825-4521\
01234567890123\
\
int count = 0;\
for (int k = 0; k < num.size(); k++)\
	if (isdigit(s[k]))\
		count++;\
\
if (count != 10)\
	cout << \'93A phone number must have 10 digits.\'94 << endl;\
\
\
\
isdigit(c) // check if any number\
islower(c) // check if lower case letter\
isupper(c) // check if upper case letter\
isalpha(c) // check if any letter\
\
\
\
if (x >= 1 && x <= 10)\
\
opposite:\
if (x < 1 || x > 10)\
if (!(x >= 1 && x <= 10))\
\
\
\
// Capitalize string letters\
\
string s;\
getline(cin, s);\
\
if (s != \'93\'94) // or if (s.size() > 0)\
	s[0] = toupper(s[0]);\
\
\
s[0] = toupper(s[0]);\
char c = toupper(s[0]);\
\
check if either O or o:\
\
if (toupper(t[k]) == \'91O\'92)\
	count++;\
\
\
mistakes:\
string s = \'93mary\'94;\
toupper(s); \cf3 // Error! Won\'92t compile! Only use with a character.\cf4 \
s = toupper(s); \cf3 // Error! Won\'92t compile!\cf4 \
toupper(s[0]); \cf3 // Mistake: doesn\'92t do anything useful\cf4 \
\
\
\
\
void greet()\
\{\
	for (int k = 0; k < 3; k++)\
		cout << \'93Hello\'94 << endl;\
\}\
\
int main()\
\{\
	greet();\
	greet();\
	greet();\
\}\
\
\
void greet(int n, string msg)\
\{\
	for (int k = 0; k < n; k++)\
		cout << msg << endl;\
\}\
\
string m;\
getline(cin, m);\
if (m != \'93\'94)\
	m[0] = toupper(m[0]);\
greet(2, m);\
\
\
\

\f0\b \cf2 week 4, wednesday\
april 25, 2018\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 void greet(int n, string msg); \cf4 // \'93function prototype\'94, HAS SEMICOLON, for when function to be called in int main() is after \
\
int main()\
\{\
	...\
	...\
	greet(\'93Hello\'94, 3); // Error! Won\'92t compile!\
	...\
	...\
	int a = 4;\
	int b;\
	cin >> b; // Suppose the user typed 2\
	greet(a+3*b, \'93Ni hao\'94);\
	cin.ignore(10000, \'91\\n\'92);\
	...\
	...\
	...\
	string m;\
	getline(cin, m); // Suppose the user typed salaam\
	if (m!= \'93\'94)\
		m[0] = toupper(m[0]);\
	greet(2,m);\
	...\
	...
\f0\b \cf2 \
\}\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf4 void greet(int n, string msg) \
\{\
	for (int k = 0; k < n; k++)\
		cout << msg << endl;\
\}
\f0\b \cf2 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 int square(int n)\
\{\
	if (n > 100)\
		return; // WON\'92T COMPILE, need to return an int\
	return n*n;\
\}\
\
int cube(int n)\
\{\
	return n * square(n);\
\}\
\
returnType name(parameters)\
\{\
	body of function;\
\}\
\
\
double hypotenuse(double leg1, double leg2)\
\{\
	return sqrt(leg1 * leg1 + leg2 * leg2);\
\}\
\
\
void greet(int n, string msg)\
\{\
	if (n < 0)\
	\{\
		cout << \'93I can\'92t greet you a negative number of times\'94 << endl;\
		return; // ends function immediately\
		// return 42; is a COMPILE ERROR because void\
	\}\
	for (int k = 0; k < n; k++)\
		cout << msg << endl;\
		// return; could have this\
\}
\f0\b \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\

\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \
\
\
}